Continuing on with the materials of the mech Let's take a look at the tubes and the spotlight on top
of him.
If I zoom in here let's take a look at these pieces.
So the tubes here are still curves they're not polygon objects yet.
If we press the Z key we can see the curve here.
If we hit the tab key we can still see the Bezier curves in here.
I think I'm going to continue to leave them as curves for now.
I still don't need to change them to polygons.
We may in the future once we begin rigging them back.
But for now I'll go ahead and leave them as curves.
So we have a rubber material already created.
Let's take a look at that.
The rubber mech joints material we could assign these to that material.
Let me switch over to my rendering viewport.
Now I think I'd like these to be a different color.
So I think what I'll do is go ahead and create a new material slot here and then create a new material
and for this material let's call it rubber neck tubes.
And I think this material should be a little bit darker.
I'll take it down quite a bit like that.
Not much has changed here but if I take this particular one and remove this material slot from this
object now we see that the only material left is that tube material.
So I think this is the one I want to go with I'll go back to my texturing viewport Slyke that hose and
I will add that rubber mask tubes to it and that just switches it out here.
So if I go back to my rendered view you can see that that material has been applied.
All right.
I'll switch back to my textured view again and I'll select one of these and this and this.
These little pieces here I think I'll just use that metal mech trim for these.
All right let's take a look at this.
Spotlight for this I think I'd like to have the metal trim be on this.
And I think up here I'd like kind of a black and gray kind of theme up here.
What I need to do is just establish base material for this as you seen when we create material for an
object.
It applies that first material to the whole thing and then we have to go back and select faces and add
new materials to collections of faces.
So for this entire one let's go ahead and add that trim metal mech trim here we'll add that whole thing.
So I'll go into edit mode and I'll select this piece up here with the L key and this is a rubber piece.
Once again I'm going to go ahead and create a new material slot.
And I'll sign that rubber mech joints to it.
Now click a sign so I should have something that looks like this.
Let's take a look.
Almost maybe think I should use the other one the black.
Let's try that one or the tubes.
Then let's take a look at this piece here and a frame up on that one I'd like to do is have a combination
of gray and black here.
I think I'll go to face mode and select these faces and then I'll use the control plus key combination
here to expand the selection.
And I think what I want to do is create a new material so I create a new material slot for this object.
Creating new material and I'll call this metal metal black spot light and I'll give it a colossi
and I'll take the color down.
Pretty dark and increase the roughness quite a bit here.
So let's take a look at that.
Oh.
And I need to assign it.
Now we go that's a little too dark.
Let's increase that a bit like so.
I'll come back here and go to that textured view.
And now I'll select individual faces here.
So I've selected these pieces and once again I'll press control plus and expand these out just a bit
and I'll assign these to that black metal as well.
I think I'd like to switch this piece back to that lighter gray.
So instead of this tube's one I'll switch it to the joints one
and then we go.
And I think lastly I'll select this fear here and assign this that black metal as well.
I'll select that and let's create a whole new material now.
I'll create a new material slot new material and we'll call this glass spot lens.
And for this I'll create a glossy material and let's assign it assign those faces to that material.
And let's take a look.
So that may be a little bit too much in terms of the reflectivity.
Now for the fingers I think what I'll do is just assign them that trim metal material for now and see
how that works.
So I'll just select the fingers and in the material pull down I'll select that metal neck trim and then
back here this little panel.
Let's take a look at this.
I think for this to begin with the metal mech trim and then I'll come in with the individual pieces
and select these.
So maybe this and this has a material that's similar.
So I'll create this.
We'll call this let's just call all these panel.
So this will be Panel blue
something like that.
We'll make these different colors so this will be like a panel maybe a this one will be maybe an orange
light.
So I'll call it panel orange.
Now to see what we're doing a little better I can switch from textured to material viewport shading.
And when we do that we can at least see the colors.
Granted we don't see the actual properties of the material but we can at least tell what color we're
putting on it.
So I'll select this one here.
And I'll call this panel red
change it to red and assign it it doesn't look great but we can work with that at least.
Now we have the materials on there and we can adjust the materials as we go.
Looks like the last thing I need to do is sign something to the joints down there on the foot.
Let's take a look at that.
Oh and I also need to assign materials to the rubber feet as well.
So let's do that.
I'll take this joint and I'll assign it to the sign that the trim material and for this one over here
as well.
For the rubber pieces we're going to need to bring them back up aren't we too.
He's not exactly standing on the ground plane here.
But for now actually that's maybe easier to get to.
So let's go ahead and do this.
I'll select all of these and let's assign the rubber to that.
So click a sign and let's do the same thing over here.
All right.
I think our Mac now has materials assigned to all the pieces of it.
We're going to need those materials as we create the look and feel of the neck.
But that'll work for now.
And we can move on to setting up the materials for the environment.
Now for the rest of the scene the environment.
I don't think we need that many materials at all.
I think I'll create one here for the floor and call this sand.
Let me do that.
Just call it sand.
And this one can be just an off white for now.
Something like that.
Let me take this away.
So we should have something that looks kind of like that.
Now the walls I think are going to be a different material as well as the ceiling.
That's going to be maybe stone solid stone so I'll go ahead and select one of these walls and I'll create
a new material slot and I'll call this new and let's call this was and for this is well I'll just change
the color a little bit and keep in mind this is just the colors are all temporary just kind of placeholders
and I'll remove this I'll go ahead and do the same for these so I can select these walls shifts like
that and the ceiling.
And then if I shift select this wall it has its material already assigned.
Now if I press control L I can link those to the material and there we go.
So that assigns the wall materials to all those other objects as well.
I think I may make the pillars and the beams all the same material.
So for this pillar all added material slot call this well pillars and beams and I'll give that a little
bit of a color to it just a slight something and remove the checker now.
Now I'll go through and select all the pillars all the beams and these pillars caps.
And then lastly select that pillar that has a material on it and press control Al and choose materials
and then these blocks and the stairs all make one material as well.
So I create I'll select these create a material slot new and we'll call this blocks and stairs and we'll
give it a slight color as well.
All right so I'll remove the checker and add that to this.
So now we should be able to take a look at it in the rendered viewport shading and see wow that really
brightened up the room now didn't it.
But that's OK.
This is all still temporary but we're beginning to see what the room might look like now.
So just for the time being I can take this light object and turn the intensity down a bit.
Something like 10 or maybe even 5 and I could also bring the ambient occlusion down Sam as well.
To maybe point 1 5 and I'll go and select the Mac and zoom in.
Now my thought is that the lighting in the room ultimately will be more contrasty kind of like that
reference image we had earlier kind of like this that there'll be pools of light and pockets of darkness
and shadow but I think now we're able to get a sense of the basic materials and look of the scene.
What I'd like to do next is to work a little bit on sculpting since we've got all this sand on the floor
in the room.
I'd like to do some I'd like to introduce the sculpting tools to create that on the floor.
So that's coming up next.